if Israel launches a grand offensive
into Gaza its forces will have to deal
with a sophisticated network of tunnels
under the territory uh these are used by
Hamas and other islamist groups uh
perhaps hundreds of kilometers long the
network is known as the Gaza
Metro one of many Israeli air strikes on
Gaza this one targeting gaza's tunnel
Network according to the Israel Defense
Forces or
IDF destroying the tunnels used by the
militant isra group Hamas has long been
a priority for Israel's
military the network runs underneath
Gaza connecting its cities running to
the border with Israel and also
connecting the strip with Egypt the
tunnels let militants store weapons
launch attacks and are believed to
contain Hamas command centers gaza's
tunnels are also lifelines to the
outside world passageways for importing
essential Goods as well as Weapons Under
a long-standing Israeli blockade this
animated video released by Israel shows
what they supposedly look like inside
militant islamist Hamas has been
developing the tunnel Network since they
came to power in 2007 recently Hamas
claimed the tunnel network is 500 km
long Hamas and other jihadist groups use
tunnel exits basically holes in the
ground to launch rocket attacks on
Israel the launchers are then brought
back underground that makes them nearly
impossible for Israel to see or
Target
Israel has tried bombarding the tunnels
in 2014 in 2017 and 2021 to destroy the
network without
success but with significant civilian
casualties the tunnel network is
reportedly woven underneath marketplaces
apartment blocks and
hospitals let's pick this up with Kobe
Michael who's a senior researcher at
Israel's Institute for National Security
studies he joins us from Tel Aviv
welcome to DW um so how has Israel
figured these tunnels into their planned
for the presumed coming ground
offensive good evening um the only
option to eliminate to destroy to
demolish uh this huge infrastructure is
by uh uh Ground Force operation ground
ground force entrance to the to the Gaza
strep uh it cannot be totally eliminated
from the air and um and this is exactly
the next stage of uh of this war and uh
it will take a while I mean it's not a
piece of cake it's not a Six Day War
it's going to last weeks even months but
uh the first stage that I assume that
will last something like two weeks will
deal with the most significant centers
of gravity of these uh of these tunnels
of this infrastructure and later on uh
we will have to continue to clean the
entire Gaza street from the north till
the border with Egypt in order to
finalize the issue and to accomplish the
mission right okay so we have a
situation where we're essentially
talking about Urban Warfare uh going
house to house uh Street to Street uh
Complicated by the existence of these
tunnels from which um Hamas uh militants
can just pop up and uh launch any number
of surprises uh at uh Israeli forces
this has been described by many uh
people um looking at this situation as
just a a trap waiting for Israel to walk
into yes uh Hamas is waiting for us um
they took into consideration that after
such a a barbaric attack there will be a
ground force um inance and U they
prepared in advance stps uh I believe
that they believe that they know what is
the at least in generalities what is
going to be the Israeli mod operandi and
our job is to surprise them and to do
something that they do not expect us to
do right and this is the reason that um
we have to accumulate very accurate
intelligence we have to exhaust them we
have to remember that they are uh 14
days under the ground it's not so easy
to be such a long period of time under
the ground they are exhausted and they
will be more exhausted and we will come
we will come with uh our surprises and
uh I believe that at the end of the day
uh all of this infrastructure will be
demolished right so and and and a
further complicating uh factor is that
we we are presuming that the hostages
are being kept underground in these in
these tunnels uh near hamama Mass
control centers uh waiting for uh
Israeli troops uh to perhaps kill them
in their efforts uh to destroy uh the
herass
infrastructure yes you are right and
this is something that um dramatically
complicates all the operation this is by
the way I think one of the reasons that
we are not there yet because I believe
that the the Israeli strategist in the
IDF think about
very creative ways to rescue hostages
but there will be there is no doubt I
mean not all of not all of the hostages
will be or will come out in alive and we
have to understand with whom we are
dealing we are dealing with barbarians
murderers ER and uh at the end of the
day they should then they must be
eliminated all of them from the first to
the
last and um and the very same time
Israel has to do all the efforts
together with the International
Community in order to pressure Hamas and
Hamas must understand that the civilian
offers are liable and not asset and if
um the the very wrong principle of
selection will be realized here it will
be terrible because the idea that
Israeli citizens that hold another
citizenship will be uh distinguished
from the other Israeli citizens it's
something that cannot be tolerated I
don't want to take you to the Holocaust
okay it's enough that to go back to an
1976 but it it this is something that
cannot be done this is something that
will weaken us Hamas thank you for
joining us and outlining that for us
Kobe Michael with the institute for
National Security
studies good night good
evening